Last time we worked on two cases with our post controller first was to display a list of all the blog
posts like all the records from the blog posts table using the blog post model and then to display one
blog post.
So here is our route definition which is our resource controller.
We talked about resource controller and we'll get to this right now so you can see that we have two
actions only index and show.
And we did that by using the only method call.
So let's now run peach bee artisan route leads to list all the routes in our up.
So you see there are two routes for The Post's so index and show.
And to add a new blog post which we will be doing in this lecture we would like two more routes.
So let's go to the resource controllers page on the larval Vicki which is available on GitHub and remind
ourselves how these routes should look in the resource controller.
So what we have here is that posts create and this route will be used to display a form used to send
a new blog post and another route is the post store.
So this particular route and the action that is bound to this route will actually store the new blog
post inside the database.
So what we'll start with is we'll add those two inside our coal to the only so we add create and store.
So no one will run the route least.
You see that we've got two additional routes that one is create and show.
Now remember that we have actually removed those methods from our controller but we can now add them.
So let's add first the first one would be create.
So this is the create action one where we will display the actual form and the second method would be
store public function store.
Now let's try to display a forum how we'll do that is we will actually only render a view so we'll render
our posts create view and that's it.
And the whole for logic of the forum would be just a plain HDMI out inside the view.
So let's create one now.
It should be called Create blade peach P by the way.
You might have noticed that even though the create is a file inside the resources views posts folder
I am using dots as a replacement for the directory separators so you would normally think that it should
be slash but in lava blade you use dots.
It's like a directory separator OK.
Now let's add the markup for our forum.
So this would extend the layout the same as all the other templates and will add the section called
content.
And inside this section we will render a form so the method for our form what we post and the action
which specifies where to send this form to would be our route to posts star
OK so we have our forum and now we might update the layout.
So we have the least of all the blog posts here.
Now let's add another link to create and call it the blog post OK.
So this is just for the ease of navigation.
Now let's go back to the forum and maybe we will ask to labels tax mistake here.
OK.
So label title and the input of the type text and name would be the title so we can close this stock
and we can even close this inside a paragraph.
So now we won't really bother with styling this will do that in later lectures so don't.
Don't really worry about how it looks right now and we can have another input.
For the content
so we have two fields so it makes sense to just create two fields on the form here.
And the final would be book bottom type.
Submit and it would be create
right.
So it seems that our forum is ready.
So let's go to our blog post page.
So we have a forum here.
Now before we actually submit this forum let's implement the store method which is the method that will
handle the forum submit also whatever is sent will be sent to this action and maybe Let's echo okay
if it was successful so it will just echo okay and die.
That's what's Didi.
Function is doing all right.
Let's go back to the forum and refresh it and try to save.
Now what you see is four hundred nineteen error and it is saying that sorry your session has expired.
Please try again.
So even if you try again you still would see the same page.
And this is actually expected because Lavell has a mechanism for which will protect you against the
CSR AV attacks and CSR F is a shortcut for cross site request forgery and it is to prevent other sites
to take over your forums or send forums to your end points inside your application.
And it does that protects you against these attacks by adding C as a rough token and you can do that
simply by using this C or a directive inside the forum.
So let's copy this and immediately add the token inside our forum.
You can add it anywhere like that.
Save the changes and let's go back to the forum and inspect it to see what has changed.
So now you can see that we have a hidden field with the name underscore token and it contains some unique
generated value.
And this is the token that is it.
It will be sent along with your forum and then Lavell will verify the stock and on the backend to check
if it is the same.
So now let's try to submit this form and you see our okay which is the text that we've implemented to
be shown on the store method.
Now before we go further let's also talk.
How does those verification of the CSA token happen.
So it is it is happening inside a thing called middleware.
So we haven't talked about middle worse yet.
And we will talk about it more a little bit later.
So just simple quick introduction.
So there is a middleware called verify CSR if token and Middleware is something that gets called a chunk
of code that gets called before your before the request is being passed to your controller or after
it is passed.
So we have two examples inside the Vicky of how an example middleware class might look like but let's
see where the words are stored so you can find them inside the app HDP middleware folder and there is
actually the middleware that is getting cold and this is verified CSR rep token.
So it actually extends a base class from a lot of value can even open it check it out see what it's
doing.
And one of the methods here is if token so much so we only will let the request through to your controller
if the tokens much so enough about the middle whereas right now because that's a topic that requires
a separate lecture at least one.
So let's ignore that for now.
Now let's just assume that there is some middleware and it works.
Now let's see how we can read the data that is being sent through our form no mind that this is also
described inside this document.
You will find a link under this lecture how you can read individual values.
So let's take a quick glance at what we can do.
So first we have to add arguments to the store method with the argument of that type request.
So this is important.
It's called type hinting.
So we are specifying what should be the type of the argument that would get passed to the sort of functions
of course.
We are not passing it ourself explicitly because Laurel is calling this function and it is passing the
parameters.
So if it sees a parameter with the so-called typing within a class request it will pass an instance
of the request object which is very useful but one of its useful features is it allows us to easily
read the data that is being sent to us the input but of course before we specify the request type as
that we will have to import that class.
So it is to be found inside the illuminate HDP.
Request.
So you have to add this you statement illuminate HDP request.
Okay now let's go back to our Vicky so we can use the old method to fetch all the input values that
we have.
So let's do that.
We can use the d d for now.
So that's the request.
All save the changes and go to our page.
Let's try it.
Re sending the form and you can see that we have all the input values that were sent.
So this includes the title and content which happened to be null because we haven't provided a value
and also a token.
Now let's see how we can echo some individual values so let's see.
We would like the title and we can get that using the input method.
And specifying a name for it.
So this would be the title and content would be request input
content.
And now let's dump those two individual variables.
And refresh.
So you set up the are both no but if we will specify some values you can see that they are here so we've
seen how to create a forum how to work with a serif tokens and how they are verified and we also seen
how we can read the data that we sent for one action for the forum and then in the next lectures we'll
also talk about middleware and how to validate those data so verify it against some constraints that
will define and then also how to store the data and redirect back to the previous page.
But this would be the next lectures.